packages/core/README.md, before:

<div align='center'>

<br />

<img src='https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-theia/theia/master/logo/theia.svg?sanitize=true' alt='theia-ext-logo' width='100px' />

<h2>ECLIPSE THEIA - CORE EXTENSION</h2>

<hr />

</div>

## Description

The `@theia/core` extension is the main extension for all Theia-based applications, and provides the main framework for all dependent extensions.
The extension provides the base APIs for all Theia-based applications, including:
- Application APIs
- Shell APIs
- Base Widgets
- Contribution Points (ex: commands, menu items, keybindings)

## Theia Extension

A Theia extension is a node package declaring `theiaExtensions` property in `package.json`:

```json
{
  "theiaExtensions": [{
      "frontend": "lib/myExtension/browser/myextension-frontend-module",
      "backend": "lib/myExtension/node/myextension-backend-module",
    }, {
      "frontend": "lib/myExtension2/browser/myextension2-browser-module",
      "frontendElectron": "lib/myExtension2/electron-browser/myextension2-electron-browser-module",
      "backend": "lib/myExtension2/node/myextension2-node-module",
      "backendElectron": "lib/myExtension2/electron-main/myextension2-electron-main-module"
  }]
}
```

Each extension can consist of the following modules:
- `frontend` is used in the browser env and as well in the electron if `frontendElectron` is not provided
- `frontendElectron` is used in the electron env
- `backend` is used in the node env and as well in the electron env if `backendElectron` is not provided
- `backendElectron` is used in the electron env

An extension module should have a default export of `ContainerModule | Promise<ContainerModule>` type.

## Theia Application

A Theia application is a node package listing [Theia extensions](#theia-extension) as dependencies and managed with [Theia CLI](../../dev-packages/cli/README.md).

## Logging Configuration

It's possible to change the log level for the entire Theia application by
passing it the `--log-level={fatal,error,warn,info,debug,trace}` option.  For
more fine-grained adjustment, it's also possible to set the log level per
logger (i.e. per topic).  The `root` logger is a special catch-all logger
through which go all messages not sent through a particular logger.  To change
the log level of particular loggers, create a config file such as

```json
{
  "defaultLevel": "info",
  "levels": {
    "terminal": "debug",
    "task": "error"
  }
}
```

where `levels` contains the logger-to-log-level mapping.  `defaultLevel`
contains the log level to use for loggers not specified in `levels`.  This file
can then be specified using the `--log-config` option.  Theia will watch that
file for changes, so it's possible to change log levels at runtime by
modifying this file.

It's unfortunately currently not possible to query Theia for the list of
existing loggers.  However, each log message specifies from which logger it
comes from, which can give an idea, without having to read the code:

```
root INFO [nsfw-watcher: 10734] Started watching: /Users/captain.future/git/theia/CONTRIBUTING.md
^^^^ ^^^^  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```
Where `root` is the name of the logger and `INFO` is the log level. These are optionally followed by the name of a child process and the process ID.

## Additional Information

- [API documentation for `@theia/core`](https://eclipse-theia.github.io/theia/docs/next/modules/core.html)
- [Theia - GitHub](https://github.com/eclipse-theia/theia)
- [Theia - Website](https://theia-ide.org/)

## License

- [Eclipse Public License 2.0](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/)
- [一 (Secondary) GNU General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception](https://projects.eclipse.org/license/secondary-gpl-2.0-cp)

## Trademark
"Theia" is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation
https://www.eclipse.org/theia

Commit message:

core,mini-browser: server enhancements
# mini-browser: serve on separate origin

The mini-browser currently hosts its services on the same origin than
Theia's main origin. This commit makes the `mini-browser` serve on its
own origin: `mini-browser.{{hostname}}` by default. Can be configured
with a `THEIA_MINI_BROWSER_HOST_PATTERN` environment variable.

# core: validate ws upgrade origin

Hosting the `mini-browser` on its own origin prevents cross-origin
requests from happening easily, but WebSockets don't benefit from the
same protection. We need to allow/disallow upgrade requests in the
backend application ourselves.

This means that in order to know who to refuse, we need to know where we
are hosted. This is done by specifying the `THEIA_HOSTS` environment
variable. If left empty, no check will be done. But if set, nothing
besides what is written in this var will be allowed. See
`BackendApplicationHosts` to get the hosts extracted from this var. Note
that the latter is not set when running Electron, since there's no need
to deal with arbitrary origins, everything should be local.

No check is done on the HTTP(s) endpoints because we'll rely on the
browser's SOP and CORS policies to take effect.

A new contribution point is added: `WsRequestValidatorContribution`.
An extender can implement this contribution to allow or not WebSocket
connections. Internally used to filter origins and Electron's token as
well as checking the origin of requests to prevent some type of XSS.

Signed-off-by: Paul Maréchal <paul.marechal@ericsson.com>

packages/core/README.md, after:

<div align='center'>

<br />

<img src='https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-theia/theia/master/logo/theia.svg?sanitize=true' alt='theia-ext-logo' width='100px' />

<h2>ECLIPSE THEIA - CORE EXTENSION</h2>

<hr />

</div>

## Description

The `@theia/core` extension is the main extension for all Theia-based applications, and provides the main framework for all dependent extensions.
The extension provides the base APIs for all Theia-based applications, including:
- Application APIs
- Shell APIs
- Base Widgets
- Contribution Points (ex: commands, menu items, keybindings)

## Theia Extension

A Theia extension is a node package declaring `theiaExtensions` property in `package.json`:

```json
{
  "theiaExtensions": [{
      "frontend": "lib/myExtension/browser/myextension-frontend-module",
      "backend": "lib/myExtension/node/myextension-backend-module",
    }, {
      "frontend": "lib/myExtension2/browser/myextension2-browser-module",
      "frontendElectron": "lib/myExtension2/electron-browser/myextension2-electron-browser-module",
      "backend": "lib/myExtension2/node/myextension2-node-module",
      "backendElectron": "lib/myExtension2/electron-main/myextension2-electron-main-module"
  }]
}
```

Each extension can consist of the following modules:
- `frontend` is used in the browser env and as well in the electron if `frontendElectron` is not provided
- `frontendElectron` is used in the electron env
- `backend` is used in the node env and as well in the electron env if `backendElectron` is not provided
- `backendElectron` is used in the electron env

An extension module should have a default export of `ContainerModule | Promise<ContainerModule>` type.

## Theia Application

A Theia application is a node package listing [Theia extensions](#theia-extension) as dependencies and managed with [Theia CLI](../../dev-packages/cli/README.md).

## Logging Configuration

It's possible to change the log level for the entire Theia application by
passing it the `--log-level={fatal,error,warn,info,debug,trace}` option.  For
more fine-grained adjustment, it's also possible to set the log level per
logger (i.e. per topic).  The `root` logger is a special catch-all logger
through which go all messages not sent through a particular logger.  To change
the log level of particular loggers, create a config file such as

```json
{
  "defaultLevel": "info",
  "levels": {
    "terminal": "debug",
    "task": "error"
  }
}
```

where `levels` contains the logger-to-log-level mapping.  `defaultLevel`
contains the log level to use for loggers not specified in `levels`.  This file
can then be specified using the `--log-config` option.  Theia will watch that
file for changes, so it's possible to change log levels at runtime by
modifying this file.

It's unfortunately currently not possible to query Theia for the list of
existing loggers.  However, each log message specifies from which logger it
comes from, which can give an idea, without having to read the code:

```
root INFO [nsfw-watcher: 10734] Started watching: /Users/captain.future/git/theia/CONTRIBUTING.md
^^^^ ^^^^  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```
Where `root` is the name of the logger and `INFO` is the log level. These are optionally followed by the name of a child process and the process ID.

## Environment Variables

- `THEIA_HOSTS`
  - A comma-separated list of hosts expected to resolve to the current application.
    - e.g: `theia.app.com,some.other.domain:3000`
  - The port number is important if your application is not hosted on either `80` or `443`.
  - If possible, you should set this environment variable:
    - When not set, Theia will allow any origin to access the WebSocket services.
    - When set, Theia will only allow the origins defined in this environment variable.

## Additional Information

- [API documentation for `@theia/core`](https://eclipse-theia.github.io/theia/docs/next/modules/core.html)
- [Theia - GitHub](https://github.com/eclipse-theia/theia)
- [Theia - Website](https://theia-ide.org/)

## License

- [Eclipse Public License 2.0](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/)
- [一 (Secondary) GNU General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception](https://projects.eclipse.org/license/secondary-gpl-2.0-cp)

## Trademark
"Theia" is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation
https://www.eclipse.org/theia
